- So 2017, pretty
much dead to us.
- It's the last year.
But
- The next one, in a
linear fashion, 2018,
very much interested about that.
So I've been thinking about some
of the features of the web that
are going to be sort of landing.
I'll discuss around them.
And I wanted to see if I
could describe one of them
to you in two minutes.
And the thing I'm going
to describe to you
is a flatMap and flatten.
- What?
- Good question.
These methods are
going to go on arrays.
- Oh, this is like, I
think, the array prototype
hasn't been changed
in a long, long time.
So this would be the
first new array prototype
functions in a long time.
- Yeah, since we had things
like sum and find index.
Quite a few new things.
- Oh, right, those
aren't very new.
So what does flatMap
and like what-- flatten,
what is flatten?
- OK.
If you have an array of
arrays, it will go through it
and just turn it
into one long array,
as if each array
is concatenated.
- One level, or will
it recurse down?
- Aha, good question.
One of the arguments
is depth, which
basically says how many times
it will run that algorithm.
- Can I give infinity as depth?
- That is a good question, of
which I do not know the answer.
But that is a fun
thing to look up.
- flatMap, what does flatMap do?
- What does flatMap do?
Do you know Map?
- I know Map.
You take an array and you apply
a function to every element.
- Yes.
And it will always produce
an array the same length
of the array you operate on.
It will be a new array,
but you can change
every item for another item.
So you can change DOM nodes
for strings or whatever.
Whereas reduce always takes
you down to like one element
is the idea.
Take an array, you go
down to one element.
FlatMap lets you look
at an item and you
return an array of items.
- So it's like Map
and then flatten.
- Exactly.
- Hence the name flatMap.
- Yes, you've spotted
the two words in there
that join together to
form what this does.
But it's something that I
found I've needed quite a bit.
- Yeah, like I
usually use reduce.
But I like push to
my accumulator value.
- And it kind of feels
like a hack, using reduce.
- Oh, it's so [INAUDIBLE].
- Right.
Exactly.
So it's a way to remove
all of the annoyance.
And you just get to create
an array of arbitrary length
from an array of
arbitrary length
by returning
[INAUDIBLE] array items.
And that's stage
free in [? TC39. ?]
- I'm really looking
forward to that.
We're getting good at this.
- Yeah, that's good timing.
- Async iterators
and generators.
- OK.
Now, I'm aware of iterators.
I'm aware of generators.
What you've done there is put
the async in front of them.
[INAUDIBLE]
- Right.
And that's pretty much it.
I think we're done.